people are starting to use ai and
machine learning much more and
everyone's always talked about machine
learning and ai and it's the buzz and
you can have computers write content for
you so you don't have to write content
as a marketer or when you're putting
products online and i have to say
the quality still isn't there
but we're really close
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the learn notification
today we have mr neil patel
neil you are a new york times
best-selling author the wall street
journal calls you the top influencer
on the web
forbes says you are one of the most uh
or the top 10 marketers and entrepreneur
magazine says that you've created one of
the most
uh brilliant 100 most brilliant
companies so you're recognized as this
top 100 entrepreneur uh by obama and all
these other people but i'd like to think
of you of just mr seo is that okay
that works for me well let me um let's
ask this first i want to know
i mean we're less than 48 hours away
from 2021. uh any takeaways from this
unprecedented year i mean i'm only i'll
be 45 in a couple of months and i
haven't seen anything like this ever um
what are your some of your takeaways
yeah so
the the big thing which everyone knows
is everything's moving online
and
if you see what people are talking about
a lot of people are just like yeah
everyone's buying online because i
covered but after covid
going to go back to normal
and i have this conception that and a
lot of people also agree with this but i
have this conception that what would
have happened five years from now of
more people adapting online
it just got pushed forward right due to
covid so that's the first big trend that
we're seeing uh
mckinsey has this whole video and report
about this kind of stuff uh it's quite
interesting they actually even ran
commercials i think on youtube about it
but
you know before kovid commerce when i'm
talking about commerce i'm not just
talking about like amazon i'm talking
about like commerce like accounting
people getting business online all that
kind of stuff
roughly 12 of commerce was done online
the rest was done offline
it was still a really small portion now
you got people like my parents who are
just like wow we knew about amazon but
we're buying it's cheaper than going to
target or cheaper than going to ralph's
or wherever they go to buy stuff and
they're like and sometimes they
delivered in the same day for free
there's prime and stuff my parents don't
get the concept they're on one of my
accounts so they think it's quote
unquote free you know but i pay like 100
to 200 or whatever it is
sounds like my kids
and uh so that's the first big trend the
second big trend that we're seeing is
people are starting to use ai and
machine learning much more
and everyone's always talked about
machine learning and ai and it's the
buzz and you can have computers write
content for you so you don't have to
write content as a marketer or when
you're putting products online
and i have to say
the quality still isn't there but we're
really close i think within a year or
two we're gonna see a huge shift in
which
machine learning and ai
can end up doing a lot of the stuff for
you and you won't need as many people in
marketing so you can automate a lot of
stuff with tools
wow okay
that was something i was not expecting
to hear from you
especially
just a position where
you know in a industry like my financial
services it's all about building a
personal brand building a personal brand
because you know i can't compete with
fidelity schwab or any of those big
names
people that need to hear the dominique
story and see if that resonates with
them to see if they want to do business
with me but you're saying maybe even not
to take away the personal brand but just
to maybe automate some aspects of
getting that type of content out is that
what you're saying correct yes there's
like tools out there that can just crank
out content on anything and we tested it
out like we typed in keto lasagna like
just random crap and you'll be shocked
on the quality of the article it wasn't
good enough to post we still needed the
editor to go edit it but we're just like
this was unautomated it saved a lot of
time
we don't use it but fast forward two
years from now i bet you it's gonna be
good enough where we don't need a editor
and we can just use the tool now i'm not
saying you can automate everything but
you can take out a lot of aspects and
have a lot of these tools do things for
you that we would have done manually
and i think that's what's amazing like
here's a good example of this i have
this seo tool called ubersudess and
you know you can use a lot of the tool
for free majority of the tools actually
given away for free and i i gave my team
initiative for 2021. see when people do
seo you have to go and modify your code
and type in all this stuff
and it gets complicated for most people
and they don't have staff or they don't
know how to code
and i gave my team objective
and i said in 2021 i want it where
someone can put a javascript just like
you do with google analytics right you
put this little code on your website and
it tells you how many visits you get in
google analytics
and i'm telling them i want people to be
able to put up a little code on their
website if they're on wordpress or
something they just click a button and
they install a plug-in like make it
super simple if the shopify same thing
and do it where that little code can
modify all their other code on their
website so they don't actually have to
make the majority of their own seo
changes so imagine saying instead of
telling your developer hey go make all
these changes ones if a tool did 60 70
80 percent of it for you 100 is going to
be tough right now but let's say 60 70
80 percent
you may not get as good as results
compared if you did it manually but if
the tool did majority of it you're
better off than doing nothing and then
you can always have a human go do the
remaining portion that can be done in an
automatic way and you're going to be
better off because you just saved money
and you did it more efficiently